Hello, everyone.
And welcome to this task. In this task,
You will learn about accessing Cisco devices.
You will learn about the Cisco IOS operating system, how
to connect to and manage Cisco devices, the software tools
used to do that, and the two configuration modes available.
on Cisco IOS. To start,
let's talk about the Cisco IOS operating system.
Network devices, like any other computer device, is
a collection of electronic components
with some form of software running on top of them.
This software is referred to as an operating system. Cisco
devices their own operating system, called the Cisco
IOS. To manage a Cisco device, you must first connect to the
device.
This connection can be directed using a console cable
for example, or it can be over a network. To manage Cisco
devices,
you will also need special software tools called terminal
emulation.
There are two months of accessing a Cisco device.
The first mode is referred to as the user exec mode, which is
a quiet limited.
The second mode is the user privilege mode, which gives you
more access and control over your Cisco device.
We have three methods to connect to a Cisco device, console
secure shell or (SSH), and telnet.
A console connection is established by connecting your laptop
or PC directly to a Cisco switch, router, or firewall.
This connection is mostly used for maintenance
 purposes or when the device has
no configuration yet.
A special cable is required for this connection, called
a console cable.
Now let's go back to Cisco Packet Tracer and open our
Connections lab, go to desktop -> labs ->
connections lab.
 Double click it, and go back
to the physical view and the corporate office, then to my
wiring closet and finally to my network rack.
I can see here a router, two switches, and a laptop.
Now I'm going to connect my laptop to the router
through a console cable. Click on connections,
then go to the console.
Click on the laptop, and select the RS port. 
Go to the router. Click the router and select
the console port.
To access this router from my laptop,
I'll click the laptop, go to the desktop tap.
Here I can see a list of available applications
on this laptop.
From this application lists, I need a terminal emulation tool.
I have a terminal here.
Click the terminal.
Here I see a list of settings.
I'll just click, OK, and now I can see that I am connected
to my router.
It's time for you to practice this.
Pause the video now and come back when you're ready.
Another method of connecting two a Cisco device is by using
the talent protocol.
Telnet is used to establish a remote connection
over a network to your Cisco device.
This connection type is highly insecure and only used in lab
and testing environments.
I'll go back to my packet tracer, remove the console
connection and connect my laptop to the telnet switch.
Go to the connections
tab. This time, I'll choose a copper straight through cable.
Click the laptop.
Choose FastEthernet 0. click the switch
and connect to FastEthernet 0/1.
I'll open my laptop once again.
Now I'm going to use another terminal emulation tool.
From the list,
I'll go to the telnet/SSH client.
Click it.
And here from the drop down list, I will select Telnet.
Okay. in the IP address tab
I'm gonna type the IP address of my switch 
192.168.1.1 then click connect.
Now I can see that I'm connected to my switch
and I'm being asked for my user name and password.
I'll type admin as a user name and Cisco as a password.
It's time for you to practice. Pause the video now and
and come back when you're ready.
Welcome back again.
The secure shell or SSH is another way of remotely
connecting to your Cisco device.
This connection is similar to the talent connection,
except that it is highly secured.
It uses encryption to send user name and passwords
and commands.
Now I'm back to my Cisco Packet Tracer window
and I'll disconnect my laptop from the talent to switch
and connected to the sshh switch.
Go. The connections tab select straight through cable. Click
the laptop then
FastEthernet zero. Click the switch and select FastEthernet 0/1
Once again, I'll click my laptop.
select the SSH client terminal emulation tool, and enter
the information for the switch 192.168.1.1
and the user name is admin.
Click connect.  Now it's asking me for a password, which is cisco.
and hit Enter. Now
I'm connected to my SSH switch.
It's time for you to practice this. Pause the video now and come
back when you're ready.
Welcome back again.
So far we have been
using terminal emulation tools available inside
of the package a tracer.
But when connecting to real Cisco devices, you will need
terminal emulation software installed on your computer.
There are many terminal emulation tools available, including
Putty, TerraTerm and SecureCRT.
Now let's talk about the Cisco IOS modes.
There are two modes of accessing Cisco IOS, the user exec
mode and the privileged mode.
The user exec mode is a quiet limited and also referred to as 
view on lee mode.
This command gives you access to basic troubleshooting and
diagnostic features such a ping, trace-route  and others.
The user privilege mode, as the name implies, gives you
access toe all monitoring commands.
It also gives you access to other configuration modes
available in Cisco IOS. In Packet Tracer,
You can also access a switch or a router directly from the
Packet Tracer's interface.
I'll double click the telnet switch, and go to the CLI tab 
and here I can see that I can access my switch. By default,
when you access a Cisco device, you are in the user exec
mode. You can see here the device name followed by the arrow
sign. To access the privileged mode.
You can use the enable command. Type "enable" and hit "Enter". And 
now you are in the privilege mode.
Here you can see the device name followed by the pound sign
indicating that you are in the privileged mode.
It's time for you to practice this. Pause the video now and
come back when you're ready.
Welcome back again and great job on completing this task
of this carried a project. In this task you learned about the
Cisco IOS operating system.
How to access, manage, and connect to a Cisco advice, and the
two modes of Cisco IOS:
The exec mode and the privileged mode.